Let's talk about regular expressions now regular expressions aren't unique to Python.
As a matter of fact you see them all of our programming languages.
But I'm going to teach you regular expression just quickly because they are very useful especially when
you're doing let's say validation like checking that somebody and has entered the right e-mail or you
have password requirements or you want to check if a piece of string exists in a piece of text.
So this is something that we're going to explore in this video.
Regular expressions.
What are they.
Well luckily for us Python comes with a regular expression module.
Remember regular expressions aren't Python specific.
You can use them pretty much in any language but they're very useful for finding things in a piece of
text so let's say we have a string here and we can say string search inside of this text please.
There we go.
Now let's say I wanted to search for something here.
First of all could I do something like this could I say search in string
let's print here
and if I click Run I get true and this is a simple way for us to search something inside of a string.
So why do we even need regular expressions.
Well regular expressions are a little bit more powerful than just this because maybe we want to search
how many times search occurs in the string or maybe we have a complicated string let me show you what
I mean.
The way we use something like regular expressions is using this format so I can say Archie dot and then
in here use search.
And as you can see here we give it a pattern and a string and some flags.
We'll talk about that a little bit later so all we need to say is what pattern do you want to do.
Well I want to search if this exists in the string so I can say this and then give it the actual string
in our case.
Well this is our string.
So if I run this well let's print out what happens here so as to print if I click Run.
All right.
I get what I call a match object a regular expression gives us an output not just true or false but
an actual object that tells us a little bit more information about this and you can see over here one
of the information is the span.
So where it occurs in the string it occurs at index of 17 and ends at index of 21.
So that's really useful.
Let's store this information and just say a here.
So what can we do with this match object while the first thing we can do is to check what we have.
So we have first of all span which we've seen.
And if I run this
it tells me where the string occurs as a couple.
So index of 17 to index of 21.
I can also do start and start well tells me when the text starts and I can also do group or actually
I can also do and to show me where it ends and then I can also do group and group returns the part of
the string where there was the match and let's say there was another this in here.
If I click Run you see that.
Well it only gives me that piece of or part of the strength that there was the match now group is really
useful when we're trying to do multiple searches so in our case we are just doing one search so we have
a pattern that we're trying to match.
But there's way that we can do multiple searches within the one line but before I show you that.
What happens if we do something that doesn't exist such as this with a capital S..
If I click Run I get an error because now a is going to be none.
Because if the regular expression doesn't find anything it's going to return None.
So it's either going to return a match object or not.
Now how can we make this more advanced.
Well one thing we can do is to create a pattern that we want to check for.
So let's say a pattern here and this pattern we're going to use regular expression dot com pop and the
compile is going to allow us to give just like we did here a pattern.
So let's say in here I simply want to check for this.
Now this pattern I can use instead of just doing Ari does search I can just use the pattern.
Now to do the search for me so again if I run this
well now I don't have to pass it this I need to just pass it the string that we want to search
see that this is being captured and I can use pattern now everywhere multiple times.
So let's say I can do pattern dot all the methods that we have we have quite a lot actually.
Let me show you some of the useful ones we have.
Find all which finds all the instances of the match.
So let's say in here Be quick run look at that.
I have this and this so I get both instances of this inside of a list I can also do something like for
match and full match while making sure that everything matches fully.
So if I click Run here let's print see here click Run I get none because I don't get a full match in
order for full match to return the match.
It has to be the exact string that we're searching.
So if I click Run there you go.
I get a match object now.
Now let's say I have a question mark in here instead of an exclamation mark if I click Run it's not
if I have exclamation mark and then maybe something else afterwards I still get not we also have another
option which is match and match as you can see matches 0 or more characters at the beginning of the
string so if I do string here and I print D.
Well actually let me change this up.
Let's do here.
Andre in the string that we're actually comparing and in fact click Run I still get a match object versus
if I do see which uses a full match which gives me a none.
Because well we only want an exact match here versus a match that matches the string and then doesn't
care what comes afterwards.
So this is extremely useful.
But up until now I mean we get a couple of methods that we can use which are quite useful but this doesn't
seem that that powerful.
Why do all languages have regular expressions why do we really care.
Well in the next video we're going to explore this idea of pattern and how we can do some really advanced
patterns.
I'll see in the next video by.